# Building LSTM Model for Time Series Forecasting of PT Pembangunan Jaya Ancol Tbk's Stock Prices

When it comes to time series forecasting, perhaps the usual method that anyone will use is Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA). However, ARIMA itself has the shortage of the data pattern, which it will fit to the linear data pattern merely. In the real world cases, the data we gather won't always show the linearity, but the nonlinearity of it. Therefore, as many advanced time series analysis method out there, I use the Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) by utilizing TensorFlow and Keras. LSTM is a part of Artificial Neural Network (ANN) and an improvement of Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) since it has an issue of vanishing gradient.

I considered PT Pembangunan Jaya Ancol Tbk (PJAA) as a research subject because it had an increasing tendency in terms of stock prices volatility compared to other companies in the tourism sector. This research aims to determine the number of hidden layers and their neurons that composed the best LSTM model based on RMSE value and to forecast the PJAA's closing, opening, lowest, and highest stock price in 220 periods ahead. Data spltting was conducted in this study, where 95% of dataset for the training data and 5% of the rest for the testing data. 

The result of this study shows that the best configuration of the LSTM model is composed by 2 hidden layers. There are 6 neurons in the first hidden layer, while 5 neurons in the second hidden layer. The model has value of 63.329 in RMSE of testing data with the PJAA's stock prices forecast results in an upward trend since November 1, 2022 to September 6, 2023. During those periods, the lowest of PJAA's share price is predicted to hit 698.284 rupiahs, whereas the highest one will reach 757.373 rupiahs.
